REVIEWER 1
----------

INTRO

1) The paragraph starting at line 45 makes several references to virtual biomechanical systems (e.g. virtual arm, virtual robot). I will also ensure that I explicitly state that the biomechanical eye in this study is a purely computational, virtual model, as I take the point that from the abstract, it is not clear that the eye is virtual rather than physical. The paragraph at line 57 changed to: In an attempt to build a model combining brain, realistic biomechanics \e{and} sensory feedback, we sought to extend our previous work modelling the oculomotor system by adding a virtual, biomechanical eye model able to make physically realistic movements. The rotational state of the eye would then determine how visual features in the virtual world were projected back into the brain model.

2) I've re-written the sentence to: Building a behaving oculomotor system will therefore assist future computational neurobehavioural modelling efforts that involve reaching.

3) Good point, I've removed the word channels from that sentence and clarified its meaning where it first appears at the start of the section "Brainstem model".

4) Changed as suggested.

5) This was engineer speak - I've changed the sentence to explicitly describe the mathematical eye in the referenced papers (a second order diff. equatio

MAT & METH

1) The rate coded model was chosen from the literature as the best saccadic burst generator available. I've modified the text to say this.

2) The first reference there seems ok - it's an RRID referencing the SpineML markup language SCR_015641.

3) I'll describe this.

4) Changed; size="integral" or "area under the curve"

5) YET TO ADDRESS.

RESULTS

1) Line 501 updated to 6 (a) & (b). I've added a much fuller
description of the results for the weight maps. Left and Right checked
for Fig 7. They were correct.

2) Yes, though not exactly of the excitatory nature required of the
connection we hypothesise here. The methods section referred to some
evidence; I have added two important references, extended the text in
the methods section and referred to this at the equivalent of line 531
in the reviewed draft.

3) Sentence modified as suggested.

4) End points were not shown in Fig 10(b) and (c) in order to zoom
inon the most dynamic part of the movement (between 0.55 and 0.6 s).

5) Surprising with hindsight perhaps - I removed that word. Later on
in that paragraph, after describing that the TNs were left 'active'
rather than being reset, I remarked: "Interestingly, this ensured
that, at least for a few, consecutive out-and-return saccades, the
saccade accuracy was relatively good, with trajectories resembling
experimental data". That is, the TN populations were firing away on
both out and return channels and yet the eye was returning nearly to
the null position. If this" accidental return accuracy" hadn't
occurred, we probably would have spotted the lack of TN reset
sooner. I added text to this effect.


DISCUSSION (Come back to this?)

1) Inhibitory feedback

2) Inaccuracies in biomechanical model

3)


REVIEWER 2
----------

MATERIAL AND METHODS

1) In agreement with the reviewer that a more comprehensive
description of the brain model was required, I have added
substantially to that section of the paper.

2) I hope that the more extensive explanation, and an additional
figure, now help to make it clearer that information enters the model
via the 'World' population and becomes output in SC_deep. I have also
added the suggested paragraph to the section 'Integrating the models and
closing the loop'

3) Information about the parameterisation of the Cope-Chambers model
has been added to the material and methods section.

The section referred to here by the reviewer is a section describing
the components from which the model was built; w_i^act (etc) are
weights in a D1/D2MSN component. The actual parameterisation of the
weights in the model was carried out by taking the GPR BG model as
starting point, and then reproducing experimental behavioural and
electrophysiological results for simple prosaccades. I have updated
the text to try to make this clearer.

4) Dopamine d. I've added to the paragraph regarding dopamine in
materials and methods to describe how a change in d affects the BG
model. I have added a sentence to make it clear that we did not
implement learning in the model and for this reason I do not discuss
the hypothesis that dopamine is a signal for prediction error.

5) "The idea the weight connectivity from the deep SC to the SBG is
implemented by the widening projection field is not clear for the
reader."

I think that's true; I've tried to make the wording clearer in this
part of the paper.

"The authors mention in lines 406-407 "This led us to hypothesize that
the retinotopic mapping be accompanied by an associated widening
projection field such that the hill of activity in superior colliculus
is invariant with position on the collicular surface". What is the
collicular surface here..."

I've changed the wording; I meant "position within the collicular map".

"...and given the fact that the activity is large in the SC for stimuli
closer to the fovea shouldn't the connectivity be convergent?"

I don't think I understand this comment; if I've not covered it with
the changes I've made, then please let me know.

"This part is very confusing and needs further explanation."

Indeed, and I've tried to expand this section to help the reader, and
I've added a sub-figure (Now in Fig. 7) to help illustrate my point.

6) Widening gaussian. It's true that the exponential of the SBG map
could be parameterised to compensate for a SC hill which gets smaller
with increasing r. However, when there are two dimensions to the eye
movement, the exponential parameter can't compensate for all of the
end-point error introduced by varying the size of the hill as a
function of r. I've added an explanation, and a figure to try to
explain this clearly.

7) I hope that the extended description of the brain model makes it
more clear that the key difference between the activity coming into
the brain model via the sustained retinal path and into FEF, and the
activity that enters via the SC_sup layers is in the timing of the
activity.

8) Response from KM: The proposed implementation of the biomechanical
eye includes modeling and simulation of two types of muscle models of
different complexity.  The first models muscles using linear path
actuators. This simplistic model of ideal muscles can be easily
integrated with high level brain models. Muscle wrapping around the
eye can be supported while in the proposed implementation we also
include in the simplistic model passive forces that stem from the
mechanical interaction of the eye globe and the surrounding soft
tissues.  The more complex model supported is a modification of the
Thelen model that is also supported by OpenSim and is based on a
Hill-type model. It includes realistic muscle wrapping geometric
entities of the muscle fibers, while it accommodates for both
activation and contraction dynamics.

Based on the above and also considering that the research question to
be addressed is not directly affected by the muscle dynamics we used
the simplistic muscle models to extract the experimental results
presented in the paper.

I added a little more description of what signal from the brainstem
model is used to drive the biomechanical eye.

9) The brain does not need to know the rotational state of the eye; a
change in the rotational state of the eye physically re-directs the
fovea, causing any luminances in the world to fall on a new part of
the retina, exciting activity in different locations in the maps
within the brain model.

10) This diagram has been incorporated (see Fig. 5 in new manuscript).

RESULTS

1) Results from the Cope paper have been included in the relevant
figure (Fig. 13 in the new manuscript).

2) I've incorporated a fuller description of the foveal mask
connectivity into the materials and methods section and so I think
this statement should be comprehensible to the reader - I did slightly
change the wording, too.

3) Double step. The stimuli could not be presented at 15 and 30
degrees because 30 degree saccades were outside the range of the
model. The precision of the model to distinguish between targets,
especially towards the periphery of the field of view is limited by
the 50x50 size of the neural layers. In order to optimise this
precision, both the Cope-Chambers model and our implementation of it
had their effective eccentricity range limited. Our implementation was
limited more than the Cope-Chambers model, because hills of activity
in SC_deep had to be kept fully within each layer. When a hill `falls
off the edge' of the layer, the amount of activation being passed to
the SBG is reduced and the saccades become inaccurate. I didn't want
to investigate effects at the edge of the SC, so I had an effective
limit of the model of about 22 degrees of eccentricity for a
saccade. I've added text to this effect to the manuscript.

4) There is indeed significant overshoot - the model fails for this
case of returning to the origin. While the reset mechanism in the TN of the
brainstem model is certainly interesting, I do not want to change the
brainstem model in this paper; the intention of the paper is to build
a model out of existing components to find the problems. I did
experiment briefly by looking at reducing the weights from EBN to
contra-lateral TN neurons, but I think a gradual reset of the type you
describe will need either another component with a slower time constant to
"leak" the activity of the TN away, or experimentation with the time
constant in the TN neurons themselves.

DISCUSSION (Come back to discussion later, submit comments responses
on methods/results first).

1) A point about inhibitory feedback to add to discussion.
